---
layout: post
title: "Get to Know Trevor Oldham"
author: Joshua Blomgren
---

# A little bit about Trevor
Trevor Oldham is from Ukiah, California, a city in Mendocino County located approximately two hours north of Berkeley. Previously, Trevor has studied Applied Mathematics at Cal Poly Humboldt and also has experience studying chemical engineering at UC Berkeley.  

# Favorite Show! 
Trevor’s favorite show right now is Better Call Saul, the prequel to Breaking Bad, and the final episode actually airs next week!

# Sports
In high school, Trevor was a member of his school’s swim team as well as his school’s water polo team. In high school, some of my closest friends were on the water polo team, and from what I’ve heard, it is a very demanding sport.

# Favorite Food
Probably one of his most favorite foods is salmon, including smoked salmon and cured salmon called lox which he prefers to eat on bagels and crackers. He is not a picker eater, although when I asked him about stinky tofu, he didn't seem very excited to try it. I don't blame him, it is also my least favorite food.

# Hobbies?
When he’s not working or studying, Trevor likes to read, especially nonfiction as well as browse Wikipedia. He’s currently listening to the audiobook of Arabian Nights, a collection of Middle Eastern folklore which includes the famous story of Aladdin. Playing the saxophone, he also has a musical side and enjoys electronic and funk music, though dislikes jazz. San Holo, a musician and DJ from the Netherlands, is one of his favorite artists. 

# Why MSSE?
Having prior experience in chemistry, Trevor was interested in the MSSE program at UC Berkeley because he wanted to learn more about incorporating elements from math and programming with chemistry. Currently, he is interested in pharmaceuticals and hopes to use the knowledge he learns from MSSE to bridge together his experiences in exploring his future career path.